MLK:
I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration
for freedom in the history of our nation.
Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the
Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to
millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a
joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity.
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. One hundred years later, the life of the
Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. One
hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of
material prosperity. One hundred years later, the Negro is still languishing in the corners of
American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. So we have come here today to
dramatize a shameful condition.
In a sense we have come to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our
republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence,
they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. This note was a
promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the unalienable
rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note insofar as her citizens of
color are concerned. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro
people a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds." But we refuse to
believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds
in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. So we have come to cash this check -- a check
that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also
come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to
engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Now is the
time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate
valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from
the quick sands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Now is the time to make
justice a reality for all of God's children.
It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer
of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of
freedom and equality. Nineteen sixty-three is not an end, but a beginning. Those who hope that
the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the
nation returns to business as usual. There will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the
Negro is granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the
foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges.
But there is something that I must say to my people who stand on the warm threshold which
leads into the palace of justice. In the process of gaining our rightful place we must not be guilty
of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of
bitterness and hatred.
We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. We must not
allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. Again and again we must rise to
the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. The marvelous new militancy
which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people, for
many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that
their destiny is tied up with our destiny. They have come to realize that their freedom is
inextricably bound to our freedom. We cannot walk alone.
As we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back.
There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" We
can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police
brutality. We can never be satisfied, as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel,
cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. We cannot be
satisfied as long as the Negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We can
never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their selfhood and robbed of their
dignity by signs stating "For Whites Only". We cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in
Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. No,
no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and
righteousness like a mighty stream.
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of
you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. Some of you have come from areas where your quest
for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police
brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that
unearned suffering is redemptive.
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go
back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that
somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair.
I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I
still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed:
"We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal."
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of
former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of
injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom
and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be
judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.
I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its governor having
his lips dripping with the words of interposition and nullification; one day right there in
Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and
white girls as sisters and brothers.
I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made
low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the
glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.
This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will be able
to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to
transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With
this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail
together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day.
This will be the day when all of God's children will be able to sing with a new meaning, "My
country, 'tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing. Land where my fathers died, land of the
pilgrim's pride, from every mountainside, let freedom ring."
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the
prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New
York. Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania!
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado!
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California!
But not only that; let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia!
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee!
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi. From every mountainside, let
freedom ring.
And when this happens, when we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village
and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all
of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will
be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, "Free at last! free at last!
thank God Almighty, we are free at last!"

Lincoln:
Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation,
conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so
conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle field of that war.
We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here
gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do
this.
But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate—we can not consecrate—we can not hallow—this
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our
poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here,
but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to
the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather
for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored
dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of
devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this
nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom—and that government of the people, by
the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.

Patrick:
No man thinks more highly than I do of the patriotism, as well as abilities, of the very worthy gentlemen who have just addressed 
the House. But different men often see the same subject in different lights; and, therefore, I hope it will not be thought 
disrespectful to those gentlemen if, entertaining as I do opinions of a character very opposite to theirs, I shall speak forth 
my sentiments freely and without reserve. This is no time for ceremony. The question before the House is one of awful moment to 
this country. For my own part, I consider it as nothing less than a question of freedom or slavery; and in proportion to the 
magnitude of the subject ought to be the freedom of the debate. It is only in this way that we can hope to arrive at truth, and 
fulfill the great responsibility which we hold to God and our country. Should I keep back my opinions at such a time, through 
fear of giving offense, I should consider myself as guilty of treason towards my country, and of an act of disloyalty toward the 
Majesty of Heaven, which I revere above all earthly kings.
Mr. President, it is natural to man to indulge in the illusions of hope. We are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth, 
and listen to the song of that siren till she transforms us into beasts. Is this the part of wise men, engaged in a great and 
arduous struggle for liberty? Are we disposed to be of the number of those who, having eyes, see not, and, having ears, hear not, 
the things which so nearly concern their temporal salvation? For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it may cost, I am willing to 
know the whole truth; to know the worst, and to provide for it.
I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, and that is the lamp of experience. I know of no way of judging of the future 
but by the past. And judging by the past, I wish to know what there has been in the conduct of the British ministry for the last 
ten years to justify those hopes with which gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves and the House. Is it that insidious 
smile with which our petition has been lately received? Trust it not, sir; it will prove a snare to your feet. Suffer not 
yourselves to be betrayed with a kiss. Ask yourselves how this gracious reception of our petition comports with those warlike 
preparations which cover our waters and darken our land. Are fleets and armies necessary to a work of love and reconciliation? 
Have we shown ourselves so unwilling to be reconciled that force must be called in to win back our love? Let us not deceive 
ourselves, sir. These are the implements of war and subjugation; the last arguments to which kings resort. I ask gentlemen, sir, 
what means this martial array, if its purpose be not to force us to submission? Can gentlemen assign any other possible motive 
for it? Has Great Britain any enemy, in this quarter of the world, to call for all this accumulation of navies and armies? No, 
sir, she has none. They are meant for us: they can be meant for no other. They are sent over to bind and rivet upon us those 
chains which the British ministry have been so long forging. And what have we to oppose to them? Shall we try argument? Sir, we 
have been trying that for the last ten years. Have we anything new to offer upon the subject? Nothing. We have held the subject 
up in every light of which it is capable; but it has been all in vain. Shall we resort to entreaty and humble supplication? What 
terms shall we find which have not been already exhausted? Let us not, I beseech you, sir, deceive ourselves. Sir, we have done 
everything that could be done to avert the storm which is now coming on. We have petitioned; we have remonstrated; we have 
supplicated; we have prostrated ourselves before the throne, and have implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hands 
of the ministry and Parliament. Our petitions have been slighted; our remonstrances have produced additional violence and insult; 
our supplications have been disregarded; and we have been spurned, with contempt, from the foot of the throne! In vain, after 
these things, may we indulge the fond hope of peace and reconciliation. There is no longer any room for hope. If we wish to be 
free-- if we mean to preserve inviolate those inestimable privileges for which we have been so long contending--if we mean not 
basely to abandon the noble struggle in which we have been so long engaged, and which we have pledged ourselves never to abandon 
until the glorious object of our contest shall be obtained--we must fight! I repeat it, sir, we must fight! An appeal to arms 
and to the God of hosts is all that is left us!
They tell us, sir, that we are weak; unable to cope with so formidable an adversary. But when shall we be stronger? Will it be 
the next week, or the next year? Will it be when we are totally disarmed, and when a British guard shall be stationed in every 
house? Shall we gather strength by irresolution and inaction? Shall we acquire the means of effectual resistance by lying 
supinely on our backs and hugging the delusive phantom of hope, until our enemies shall have bound us hand and foot? Sir, we are 
not weak if we make a proper use of those means which the God of nature hath placed in our power. The millions of people, armed 
in the holy cause of liberty, and in such a country as that which we possess, are invincible by any force which our enemy can 
send against us. Besides, sir, we shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God who presides over the destinies of 
nations, and who will raise up friends to fight our battles for us. The battle, sir, is not to the strong alone; it is to the 
vigilant, the active, the brave. Besides, sir, we have no election. If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too late to 
retire from the contest. There is no retreat but in submission and slavery! Our chains are forged! Their clanking may be heard 
on the plains of Boston! The war is inevitable--and let it come! I repeat it, sir, let it come.
It is in vain, sir, to extenuate the matter. Gentlemen may cry, Peace, Peace-- but there is no peace. The war is actually begun! 
The next gale that sweeps from the north will bring to our ears the clash of resounding arms! Our brethren are already in the 
field! Why stand we here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to 
be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take; but as for me, 
give me liberty or give me death!